building-an-api (#7)
Ada-Developers-Academy/core-unit-2: building-an-api/activity-solar-system-api-setup-create-read.md

# Activity: Solar System API: Setup, Create, Read

## Goal

Our coding skills improve with repetition.

Our goal is to practice creating a minimal Flask API in a pair or group setting.

Pairing with other programmers will help create stronger understanding of the material, and improved skill at working with others. Software teams thrive on collaboration, so working side-by-side with someone while coding is vital!

In this activity, we will build a Solar System API. This API will store information about different planets.

## Activity Instructions

### Setup

- Follow instructions from class on how to find pair/group assignments
- Meet with your pair/group 👋
- Choose one member to fork [the Solar System API repo](https://github.com/AdaGold/solar-system-api)

> - Add all members to the forked repo as collaborators (through the repo settings)

Reviewer: Will students know how to do this yet, or should there be further explanation?

- Decide which members will take the driver and navigator roles

### Driver/Navigator Roles

> Driver and navigator roles should switch at least daily.

Reviewer 2: I'm confused by the daily recommendation. Is this an activity that spans multiple days? The suggestion as its written sounds to me like if one person stays the driver for the whole day, that's ok, which sounds like too much to me but maybe I'm missing something.
I would feel inclined to suggest it should switch every 30 minutes, but I've tried to keep it closer to your suggestion.
```suggestion
Driver and navigator roles should switch at least once during the activity.
```

> Decide who will be the driver today. The person who most desires to practice confidence today should drive first.

Reviewer: Align with the suggestion above to de-emphasize dailiness.

```suggestion
Decide who will be the initial driver. The person who most desires to practice confidence should drive first.
```

### Build

1. Clone the forked repo and `cd` into it
1. Recreate the following setup steps of [the Solar System API repo](https://github.com/AdaGold/solar-system-api):
   1. Create a virtual environment and activate it
   1. Install the dependencies
   1. Create the database `solar_system_development`

>    1. Create the `planet` table with the columns `id`, `name`, and `description`, and one additional column
>    1. Setup the `Planet` model

Reviewer: swap the ordering since we should create the model first, and then have flask set up the table
```suggestion
   1. Setup the `Planet` model with the attributes `id`, `name`, and `description`, and one additional attribute
   1. Create a migration to add a table for the `Planet` model and then apply it. Confirm that the `planet` table has been created as expected.
```
